README.md, before:

![Base](logo.webp)

# Base node

Base is a secure, low-cost, developer-friendly Ethereum L2 built to bring the next billion users to web3. It's built on Optimism’s open-source [OP Stack](https://stack.optimism.io/).

This repository contains the relevant Docker builds to run your own node on the Base network.

<!-- Badge row 1 - status -->

[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/base-org/node)](https://github.com/base-org/node/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/w/base-org/node)](https://github.com/base-org/node/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/base-org/node.svg)](https://github.com/base-org/node/stargazers)
![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/base-org/node)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/base-org/node?color=blue)](https://github.com/base-org/node/blob/main/LICENSE)

<!-- Badge row 2 - links and profiles -->

[![Website base.org](https://img.shields.io/website-up-down-green-red/https/base.org.svg)](https://base.org)
[![Blog](https://img.shields.io/badge/blog-up-green)](https://base.mirror.xyz/)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-up-green)](https://docs.base.org/)
[![Twitter BuildOnBase](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/BuildOnBase?style=social)](https://twitter.com/BuildOnBase)

<!-- Badge row 3 - detailed status -->

[![GitHub pull requests by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/base-org/node)](https://github.com/base-org/node/pulls)
[![GitHub Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/base-org/node.svg)](https://github.com/base-org/node/issues)

### Hardware requirements

We recommend you this configuration to run a node:
- at least 16 GB RAM
- an SSD drive with at least 100 GB free

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter problems with your node, please open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/base-org/node/issues/new/choose) or reach out on our Discord:
- Once you've joined, in the Discord app go to `server menu` > `Linked Roles` > `connect GitHub` and connect your GitHub account so you can gain access to our special developer channels
- Report your issue in `#🛟|node-support`

### Supported networks

| Ethereum Network | Status |
|------------------|--------|
| Goerli testnet   | ✅     |
| Mainnet          | 🚧     |

### Usage

1. Ensure you have an Goerli L1 node RPC available, and set `OP_NODE_L1_ETH_RPC` (in `docker-compose.yml` if using docker-compose).
2. Run:
```
docker compose up
```
3. You should now be able to `curl` your Base node:
```
curl -d '{"id":0,"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getBlockByNumber","params":["latest",false]}' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

Note: Some L1 nodes (e.g. Erigon) do not support fetching storage proofs. You can work around this by specifying `--l1.trustrpc` when starting op-node (add it in `op-node-entrypoint.sh` and rebuild the docker image with `docker compose build`.) Do not do this unless you fully trust the L1 node provider.

### Syncing

Sync speed depends on your L1 node, as the majority of the chain is derived from data submitted to the L1. You can check your syncing status using the `optimism_syncStatus` RPC on the `op-node` container. Example:
```
echo Latest synced block behind by: \
$((($( date +%s )-\
$( curl -s -d '{"id":0,"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"optimism_syncStatus"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:7545 |
   jq -r .result.unsafe_l2.timestamp))/60)) minutes
```

Commit message:

Adds comments / clarifies L1 as ethereum, not Base (#19)
* Adds comments / clarifies L1 as ethereum, not Base

* Fix casing

---------

Co-authored-by: Michael de Hoog <michael.dehoog@coinbase.com>

README.md, after:

![Base](logo.webp)

# Base node

Base is a secure, low-cost, developer-friendly Ethereum L2 built to bring the next billion users to web3. It's built on Optimism’s open-source [OP Stack](https://stack.optimism.io/).

This repository contains the relevant Docker builds to run your own node on the Base network.

<!-- Badge row 1 - status -->

[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/base-org/node)](https://github.com/base-org/node/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/w/base-org/node)](https://github.com/base-org/node/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/base-org/node.svg)](https://github.com/base-org/node/stargazers)
![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/base-org/node)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/base-org/node?color=blue)](https://github.com/base-org/node/blob/main/LICENSE)

<!-- Badge row 2 - links and profiles -->

[![Website base.org](https://img.shields.io/website-up-down-green-red/https/base.org.svg)](https://base.org)
[![Blog](https://img.shields.io/badge/blog-up-green)](https://base.mirror.xyz/)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-up-green)](https://docs.base.org/)
[![Twitter BuildOnBase](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/BuildOnBase?style=social)](https://twitter.com/BuildOnBase)

<!-- Badge row 3 - detailed status -->

[![GitHub pull requests by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/base-org/node)](https://github.com/base-org/node/pulls)
[![GitHub Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/base-org/node.svg)](https://github.com/base-org/node/issues)

### Hardware requirements

We recommend you this configuration to run a node:
- at least 16 GB RAM
- an SSD drive with at least 100 GB free

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter problems with your node, please open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/base-org/node/issues/new/choose) or reach out on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/buildonbase):
- Once you've joined, in the Discord app go to `server menu` > `Linked Roles` > `connect GitHub` and connect your GitHub account so you can gain access to our developer channels
- Report your issue in `#🛟|node-support`

### Supported networks

| Ethereum Network | Status |
|------------------|--------|
| Goerli testnet   | ✅     |
| Mainnet          | 🚧     |

### Usage

1. Ensure you have an Ethereum Goerli L1 node RPC available (not Base Goerli), and set `OP_NODE_L1_ETH_RPC` (in `docker-compose.yml` if using docker-compose). If running your own L1 node, it needs to be synced before Base will be able to fully sync.
2. Run:
```
docker compose up
```
3. You should now be able to `curl` your Base node:
```
curl -d '{"id":0,"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_getBlockByNumber","params":["latest",false]}' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8545
```

Note: Some L1 nodes (e.g. Erigon) do not support fetching storage proofs. You can work around this by specifying `--l1.trustrpc` when starting op-node (add it in `op-node-entrypoint.sh` and rebuild the docker image with `docker compose build`.) Do not do this unless you fully trust the L1 node provider.

### Syncing

Sync speed depends on your L1 node, as the majority of the chain is derived from data submitted to the L1. You can check your syncing status using the `optimism_syncStatus` RPC on the `op-node` container. Example:
```
echo Latest synced block behind by: \
$((($( date +%s )-\
$( curl -s -d '{"id":0,"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"optimism_syncStatus"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:7545 |
   jq -r .result.unsafe_l2.timestamp))/60)) minutes
```
